Another of the things that I thought would do well
to discuss, and that you've been quite analytical
of the situation all through the years, it just
does help a whole lot to be bound together in
association where we can learn not only the
technological things, but learn how to get along
together and with each other and to promote
veterinary medicine for the benefit of the
public. As an active person all through these
years, I'm sure you espoused those views. Yes,
that was
one thing that we as board members were made to
realize that that was our primary purpose was to
benefit the public. And I appeared before the
Sunset Commission at the last two or three years,
three years ago, four years ago, I guess, when the
veterinary board came under review. And that was
the time that they proposed to put lay people on the
veterinary board, examining board. And it was, to
me, I think it was a mistake, but The legislature
didn't seem to think so, and we did wind up with two
members. But,
you know, you have to have gone through a
veterinary school to appreciate what we can do and
the services that we do render. And what needs to be
done. Yeah.
It's just, I think the name of the game, as far as I'm
concerned, is your client-veterinary
relationship. That's just my feeling of it, and
you can't get away from it. And I've seen so many
newer graduates that, and I'm not setting myself
up as an example, but so many newer graduates that
the only thing they're looking for is the dollar.
And it's, there's more to it than that.
For, I can't help but notice some of their
veterinarians as they've gone through the
practice career, the ones who've just made an
adequate living seem to be just as happy as many of
those who have
made a greater amount of money, so. Yeah. Well,
very few, very few veterinarians ever got rich
practicing veterinary medicine. A small
percentage of them.
The ones that got that made it on the... They made it
on investments or some outside interest. On the
side, yes. One of the things that I thought, since
you've been around quite a while, is to discuss
some of the acquaintances that you've known in
veterinary medicine through the years. One of
those grand people that we don't hear about and
used to be secretary of the TVMA back in the early
days was Dr. Marsteller. What are your
recollections of Dr. Marsteller? Well, of
course, he was dean when I went to school, say, at
A&M. He was the dean. And I thought Dr. Marsteller
was a very fine man. He was always receptive to any
problems that I had. And
I felt free to go in any time and just ask him
anything that I wanted, and his door was always
open. And he was a fine man. He was a very dedicated
person.
He was secretary back in the times when your dad was
very active in the association. Did you ever hear
your dad talk about him in the association? Oh,
yeah. My dad and Dr. Marsteller were real close
friends. And I first got to know him when my dad
would go down for short courses at A&M during the
summer. And I would go with him and got to know Dr.
Marsteller.
I'd stay over at the horse barn with Owen Garrigan.
I don't know whether you ever knew Owen Garrigan or
not. He was the greatest horseman that ever left
A&M. And he had charge of all the horse barn, all the
horses, and I'd stay over there with him a lot. And
later on, when I went to school, I got me a job over
there working for him. I didn't care about, of
course, I needed the money, but he forgot more
about horses than most people down there ever
knew. He was a wonderful Scotchman, and he was a
wonderful horseman.
Wonderful. There's another man I thought I'd ask
you about. During the World War I years, Dr. N.F.
Williams was president for three years. You know,
he spanned the war years. Did either you or your
father have a personal acquaintance with him? No,
I never had any acquaintance. I was never
acquainted with Dr. Williams. Was he in vet
school? He was in the ag department, wasn't he? No,
he was a veterinarian in practice. I forget just
where he practiced. But when the Two associations
came together again after they'd been separated
for four years. He seemed to be oil on troubled
waters, and that's why I thought it had something
to do with it. No, I've never heard his name
mentioned. If I have, I've forgotten it. Okay.
Another person who really worked hard stayed
mostly in the laboratory, but he did get out
around. I know I saw him in a lot of the veterinary
meetings and so forth. Just to see him was Dr.
Hubert Schmidt. Did you see much of him? I worked
with Dr. Schmidt when I was in school, and he was
working on X disease.
Are you familiar with that? It's a toxic disease,
is that correct? Yes. He did a lot of research on
that.
You might tell us the etiology of that while you're
on it. Somebody might hear this and didn't know
what it was even. Well, it was a Actually, it was
caused from lubricant that was used in making
these range pellets.
And the first that I saw it, the first case I had, I
didn't know what it was. It was just
the cows, the cattle, their muzzle, Those would
just crust up and be red just like it was a
photosensitization. They're utter, all the
light spots. And it was caused from chlorinated
naphthalenes in the lubricant that was also
lubricants that was used on farm machinery. I
think Texaco was involved in it. I know Trader's
Mill in Fort Worth was involved in it. And
incidentally, they are to be complimented
because they paid every claim I guess that was
presented to them without any...
Was Dr. Schmidt the one that finally came up with
the solution?
I think so. I think you did. I know he did more
research on X disease than anyone else that I know
of.
I know I had one client that came to me and had lost 86
head of cattle. And the only way that I diagnosed it
or knew what it was while I was I took one of the tags
from a feed sack in his barn and I don't know I stuck
it in my pocket and he had told me that his wife had
never lost any hadn't lost any cattle with this and
I said well how do you account for that he said I
don't know but he said she won't buy she won't buy
feed from the same people I buy from
so I guess that little spark or something i got back
to my office and i called dr star i believe in
gainful and i see star i believe i believe it's dr
star and i said doctor i said who are these people
that you're having losses from who are they buying
their feed from and he's kind of hesitant to tell
him And finally he told me who it was. I said, well,
it's the same place mine's coming from. And that, I
think, was to, as far as I was concerned, was the
source of the problem.
Who were the other people of prominence that you
felt came along that deserve mention through the
years? Well, Dr. Phil Mockford practiced here in
Greenville. He was the first class that graduated
from A&M. He just died a couple of years ago. And he
was quite prominent with the State Association.
Was that in 1920? What? The first class that
graduated from A&M? I don't remember the date. I
know he was in the first class. There were only...
There were very few graduates from it. Someone
told me that no one in that class ever went into
practice, but that can't be true. He did. No,
that's not true. Dr. Mockford, right?
M-O-G-F-O-R-D? M-O-C-K-F-O-R-D. Oh,
M-O-C-K-F-O-R-D. J. Phil. J. Phil Mockford. And
I've seen pictures of that class somewhere. I
don't remember. There were eight of them, weren't
there? Something like that, yeah.
I
feel that Dr. Al Price needs a big pat on the back for
getting
the physical plant enlarged at A&M and so forth.
They were kind of cramped over there where they
originally were. Yeah, Al stepped in at a good time
and did a real fine job. He's to be commended for it.
He deserves a lot of credit. He was a classmate of
mine.
I couldn't help but feel that in the examining
board, compared to the mild situations that used
to be, there weren't too many cases to follow up on,
and the examinations were relatively...
homegrown now you've got to coordinate with the
national board and all that sort of thing the
examination board work has become much more
complex in the last 15 years has it not yeah and i was
i was in the middle of that too tell us about that
well the professional examination service is the
is the mother of the national exam and they wanted
to well the first meeting that I went to after I was
we had what's called the American Association of
State Boards which are members from state boards
from each state and the National Examination
Service wasn't giving us the service that we felt
we should have they had repeat questions and they
had a bank of questions that were antiquated
questions that you wouldn't believe were still
there and this was back in 1970. So
T.D. Weaver deserves more credit for than anyone
else for the work that was done to to improve the
national examination and the state our whole
state board exam. T.D.' 's never gotten the credit
that he deserved. But I was president of the board,
and we were in Anaheim, California, and T.B. and I
got the board president from Colorado, Whitey
Albrecht from California. I've forgotten his
name. One from Washington State. one from Kansas,
one from Oklahoma, Sam Strong from Oklahoma.
And we told the National Board, National
Examining Service, if they didn't improve it and
do what we wanted, we were going to pull out of it.
Well, they couldn't operate without us. So they
did improve it, and the national exam improved, I
think, tremendously the next from then on. I
haven't seen one lately, but I know it was a big
thing. I know I served on the National Examining
Board, and we would go up every year and go through
those questions and see that there were new
questions, fresh questions, and it made a big
difference. They were just giving us anything
they wanted, and it was no good.
Also,
it's
much more complex as regards the possibilities of
malpractice and so forth now, is it not? With the
attorneys becoming much more active in the field
of this and that, they're
ambitious both from the standpoint of protecting
someone who perhaps ought to be reprimanded and
also for bringing frivolous suits about.
Well, I'm sure that veterinary profession gets
its share of them. I don't know it's I don't think we
see near as many malpractice suits as possibly
they should be. It's
You don't realize
just how much is involved until you start reading
all the complaints that come into the examining
board that have to be answered. And the people that
complain, they feel like they have a legitimate
complaint, which they do. I'm sure they feel like
they do, and most of them are. There's room for it,
but the big problem that could help avoid so many of
these is communication. You know that being in
practice that you have good days and you have bad
days and it's pretty easy to brush them off if
you're not careful and that's the big problem. I
don't think it's that they don't know what they're
doing but I think that it's They just don't
communicate with the client. If the client
understands everything before they leave, it
eliminates a lot of problems, doesn't it? It's
always done. Sure enough.
Anything else you wish to give for the good of the
cause while you're telling how everything is?
I'm... I think it would be well... You're one of the
fine people who has become involved a whole lot
civically, and I think it's well to tell all your
civic positions here in the city of Greenville.
Well, I've served on the school board for 12 years.
I was president of it for six years. I served on the
city council for two terms, and I was mayor for one
term. And that was... Six years on city council, 12
years on school board. Served 12 years on state
examining board. Served three years on the
national board of examiners. President of the
American Association of State Boards. And I was
representative of the state boards to FARB, which
is a federation of Association
of Health.
I don't know. I've forgotten. It's been 10 years.
Federal Association of Related Boards? Not
related board. Federal Association of Health.
F-A-H-R-B, of Health. Uh.
I don't know, it doesn't matter a whole lot, but it
was an interesting job for a while. But I've been
active in Chamber of Commerce and in Greenville
and
tried to be a good citizen.
Very fine. Dr. Wilkins, we certainly appreciate
all the contributions that you and your father
before you have made for the veterinary
profession, and we're looking forward to many
more years of such service. Well, thank you, Bob.